Java, a high-level general purpose programming language, runs on over three billion devices. It is a powerful and predominant software platform. Every full implementation of the Java platform provides great features:

1. Development Tools - everything you will need to compile, run, monitor, debug, and document your application. (Java compiler, Java launcher, and Javadoc)
2. Application Programming Interface (API) - List of all the classes that are part of the Java Development Kit (JDK), including all packages, classes and interfaces along with their methods, fields and constructors. The pre-written classes equip you with a massive amount of functionality. 
3. Deployment Technologies - the JDK gives you standard mechanisms like the Java Plug-in and Web Start software for deploying your applications to end users.
4. User Interface Toolkits - Java FX, Swing, and Java 2D can be used to build intricate Graphical User Interface (GUIs).
5. Integration Libraries - Allows database access and possible manipulation of remote objects.

The attributes of Java described above are used in implementation to create different types of applications. Below are the four main types of applications that can be constructed using Java.

1. Standalone Application - Also called desktop or window-based application. These applications need to be installed on every machine. Some examples include media player and antivirus applications.
2. Web Application - Runs on a server and creates a dynamic page.
3. Enterprise Application - Distributed application for businesses. Offers scalability, security, load balancing and clustering.
4. Mobile Application - Created for a mobile device. Examples include social media apps and games.

