Welcome to our Java Course! We will be exploring basic concepts of Java that will give you enough knowledge to create your own programs and build your own games.

Where do we begin? Let's explore what Java is.

Created and developed by James Gosling at Sun Microsystems, Java was first used in 1995 as a core component of Sun Microsystem's Java platform. Java is a high-level programming language platform that poses all the attributes below:

Java is…

1. Object Oriented - software uses a combination of different types of objects. Java sustains and utilizes the inheritance features of most object-based platforms.

2. Platform Independent - Java code runs in the same fashion on any JVM (Java Virtual Machine). The same code will run in the same way with the same result on any JVM operating system, including Mac, Linux, Windows and other JVMs.

3. Dynamic - Java executes multiple programming behaviors at runtime and doesn't need to pass back through at compile time as in static programming languages.

4. Multi-threaded - a thread refers to one independent program. Multi-threading allows you to run many tasks simultaneously while sharing the same memory.

5. Interpreted - Compiled Java language produces Java byte codes which are then interpreted by the JVM.

6. Portable - "Write Once, Run Anywhere" (WORA). Once a Java program is compiled, bytecodes are produced and can be transferred, via a network, to be executed by any JVM.

7. Robust - Java can handle errors and abnormalities while the program is executing. Some of the features that make this possible include capable memory management, automatic garbage collection, type checking and exception handling.

8. High-level - Java programming language is readable to a human, which allows the programmer to focus on "what" he or she wants to achieve rather than "how". The JVM then converts it to machine readable language.

We will continue to explore each one of these concepts as we move through the course.

